<div _ngcontent-serverapp-c318="" class="body-text p-24"><h2 style="text-align:justify;"><span style="font-size:13pt;"><strong>Operations on Linear Data Structures</strong></span></h2><p style="text-align:justify;">&nbsp;</p><ol><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Access: Retrieving elements by index, position, or pointer.</span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Insertion: Adding new elements at specific positions.</span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Deletion: Removing elements from specific positions.</span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Traversal: Iterating through elements sequentially.</span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Search: Finding the position or existence of an element.</span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Update: Modifying the value of an element.</span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Sorting: Arranging elements in a specified order.</span></li><li><p><span style="font-size:11pt;">Merging: Combining two ordered linear structures.</span></p><p>&nbsp;</p></li></ol><h2 style="text-align:justify;"><span style="font-size:13pt;">Real-world Examples of Linear Data Structure:</span></h2><p style="text-align:justify;">&nbsp;</p><ol><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Arrays:</span><ol><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Grocery Shopping List: Managing your shopping list with each item corresponding to an array index simplifies adding, removing, and checking off items.</span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Image Pixels: In digital images, arrays store pixel values, allowing manipulation and editing of pictures by altering individual pixel colours.</span></li></ol></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Linked Lists:</span><ol><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Music Playlist: Linked lists are suitable for creating playlists, where songs are nodes connected in a sequence, allowing easy rearrangement and modification.</span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Train Cars: Linked lists can represent train cars linked together, enabling efficient addition and removal of cars without affecting the entire train.&nbsp;&nbsp;</span></li></ol></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Stacks:</span><ol><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Undo Feature: In software applications, stacks manage to undo operations, enabling users to reverse actions in the order they were performed.</span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Plate Stacking: Plates stacked on top of each other represent a real-world example of a stack, where the last plate placed is the first one taken.</span></li></ol></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Queues:</span><ol><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Cafeteria Line: Queues model waiting in line at a cafeteria, where the first person in line is served first, maintaining order and fairness.</span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Ticket Counter: Waiting in line to purchase tickets, like at a cinema or an event, follows the queue concept.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</span></li></ol></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Deques (Double-Ended Queues):</span><ol><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Sliding Glass Doors: Deques are similar to sliding glass doors at entrances, allowing people to enter or exit from both sides.</span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Printing and Scanning: Deques mimic the process of loading and unloading papers for printing and scanning, as both ends are accessible.</span></li></ol></li></ol><p>&nbsp;</p></div>