<div _ngcontent-serverapp-c231="" class="note-body"><div _ngcontent-serverapp-c231="" class="body-text"><h2><strong>Introduction to Python</strong></h2><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Python is an easy-to-learn and powerful Object-Oriented Programming language. It is a high-level programming language.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h3><strong>Why Python?</strong></h3><ol><li>Easy to Use: Python is comparatively an easier-to-use language as compared to other programming languages.</li><li>Expressive Language: The syntax of Python is closer to how you would write pseudocode. Which makes it capable of expressing the code’s purpose better than many other languages.</li><li>Interpreted Language: Python is an interpreted language; this means that the Python installation interprets and executes the code a line at a time.</li><li>Python is one of the most popular programming languages to be used in Web Development owing to the variety of Web Development platforms built over it like Django, Flask, etc.</li></ol><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>It is used for:</strong></p><ul><li>web development (server-side),</li><li>software development,</li><li>mathematics,</li><li>system scripting.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><h3><strong>Why Python?</strong></h3><ul><li>Python works on different platforms (Windows, Mac, Linux, Raspberry Pi, etc).</li><li>Python has a simple syntax similar to the English language.</li><li>Python has a syntax that allows developers to write programs with fewer lines than some other programming languages.</li><li>Python runs on an interpreter system, meaning that code can be executed as soon as it is written. This means that prototyping can be very quick.</li><li>Python can be treated in a procedural way, an object-oriented way or a functional way.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><h3><strong>Good to know</strong></h3><ul><li>The most recent major version of Python is Python 3, which we shall be using in this tutorial. However, Python 2, although not being updated with anything other than security updates, is still quite popular.</li><li>In this tutorial, Python will be written in a text editor. It is possible to write Python in an Integrated Development Environment, such as Thonny, Pycharm, Netbeans, or Eclipse which are particularly useful when managing larger collections of Python files.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><h3><strong>Python Syntax compared to other programming languages</strong></h3><ul><li>Python was designed for readability and has some similarities to the English language with influence from mathematics.</li><li>Python uses new lines to complete a command, as opposed to other programming languages which often use semicolons or parentheses.</li><li>Python relies on indentation, using whitespace, to define scope; such as the scope of loops, functions, and classes. Other programming languages often use curly brackets for this purpose.</li></ul></div></div>