<div _ngcontent-serverapp-c232="" class="note-body"><div _ngcontent-serverapp-c232="" class="body-text"><h2><strong>Scope of Variables</strong></h2><p>&nbsp;</p><p>All variables in a program may not be accessible at all locations in that program. Part(s) of the program within which the variable name is legal and accessible, is called the scope of the variable. A variable will only be visible to and accessible by the code blocks in its scope.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>There are broadly two kinds of scopes in Python −&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;● Global scope</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;● Local scope</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h3><strong>Global Scope :</strong></h3><p><strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;</strong></p><p>A variable/name declared in the top-level segment <strong>(__main__)</strong> of a program is said to have a global scope and is usable inside the whole program (Can be accessed from anywhere in the program).</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In Python, a variable declared outside a function is known as a global variable. This means that a global variable can be accessed from inside or outside of the function.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h4><strong>Creating a Global Variable</strong></h4><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Consider the given code snippet:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs">x = <span class="hljs-string">"Global Variable"</span> 
<span class="hljs-function"><span class="hljs-keyword">def</span> <span class="hljs-title">foo</span>():</span> 
 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;print(<span class="hljs-string">"Value of x: "</span>, x) 
foo()</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Here, we created a global variable <strong>x = "Global Variable"</strong>. Then, we created a function foo to print the value of the global variable from inside the function. We get the output :&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs">Global Variable</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Thus we can conclude that we can access a global variable from inside any function.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h4><strong>What if you want to change the value of a Global Variable from inside a function?</strong></h4><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Consider the code snippet:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs">x = <span class="hljs-string">"Global Variable"</span> 
<span class="hljs-function"><span class="hljs-keyword">def</span> <span class="hljs-title">foo</span>():</span> 
	x+=<span class="hljs-number">1</span>
 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;print(<span class="hljs-string">"Value of x: "</span>, x) 
foo()</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this code block, we tried to update the value of the global variable x. We get an output as:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs">UnboundLocalError: local variable <span class="hljs-string">'x'</span> referenced before assignment</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>This happens because, when the command <strong>x=x-1</strong>, is interpreted, Python treats this <strong>x</strong> as a local variable and we have not defined any local variable <strong>x</strong> inside the function foo()</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h3><strong>Local Scope:</strong></h3><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Variables that are defined inside a function body have a local scope. This means that local variables can be accessed only inside the function in which they are declared.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h4><strong>Creating a Local Variable</strong></h4><p>&nbsp;</p><p>We declare a local variable inside a function. Consider the given function definition:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs"><span class="hljs-function"><span class="hljs-keyword">def</span> <span class="hljs-title">foo</span>():</span>
 &nbsp;y = <span class="hljs-string">"Local Variable"</span>
 &nbsp;print(y) 
foo()</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>We get the output as:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs">Local Variable</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><h4><strong>Accessing A Local Variable Outside The Scope</strong></h4><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs"><span class="hljs-function"><span class="hljs-keyword">def</span> <span class="hljs-title">foo</span>():</span>
 &nbsp;y = <span class="hljs-string">"local"</span>
foo()
print(y)</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In the above code, we declared a local variable y inside the function foo(), and then we tried to access it from outside the function. We get the output as:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs">NameError: name <span class="hljs-string">'y'</span> <span class="hljs-keyword">is</span> <span class="hljs-keyword">not</span> defined</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>We get an error because the lifetime of a <strong>local variable</strong> is the function it is defined in. Outside the function, the variable does not exist and cannot be accessed. In other words, a variable cannot be accessed outside its scope.</p></div></div>