<div _ngcontent-serverapp-c318="" class="body-text p-24"><h1><span style="font-size:17pt;"><strong>Real life applications of Stack and Queue</strong></span></h1><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:13.999999999999998pt;"><strong>Backtracking Algorithms -</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size:11pt;">Stacks are used in backtracking algorithms, such as solving mazes or puzzles, by storing and managing the state at each step in the stack.</span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:13.999999999999998pt;"><strong>Traffic Management -</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size:11pt;">Queues can be used in traffic management systems to control the flow of vehicles at intersections and toll booths, ensuring a fair and orderly passage.</span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:13.999999999999998pt;"><strong>Browser History -&nbsp;</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size:11pt;">Stacks are used to manage the history of browsers. The most recent web page is kept at the top and the oldest webpage is kept at the bottom of the stack. Thus, the web pages form a monotonic stack in terms of&nbsp;<strong>timestamp</strong>. They are sorted&nbsp;<strong>decreasingly</strong> on the basis of timestamps.</span></p><p><span style="font-size:11pt;">In recent browsers, history is cleared after a span of some time (for eg - 3 months). Thus, the web pages having timestamps greater than 3 months are automatically removed from the bottom by different algorithms.</span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:13.999999999999998pt;"><strong>Order Processing in Real Time -</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size:11pt;">Real life applications like E-commerce websites, shopping sites, online food delivery&nbsp; and order fulfilment centres often use queues to process orders, ensuring that orders are processed in the order they are received to avoid any confusion and to maintain decidability.</span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:13.999999999999998pt;"><strong>Breadth-First Search (BFS) -</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size:11pt;">In graph algorithms, queues are used to perform BFS, where nodes are explored level by level, making queues an essential data structure for path-finding and network traversal.</span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:13.999999999999998pt;"><strong>Expression Evaluation -</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size:11pt;">Stacks are used in the evaluation of mathematical expressions, including infix, postfix, and prefix notations, to manage operators and operands.</span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:13.999999999999998pt;"><strong>Customer Service and Call Center Systems -</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size:11pt;">Customer service centres often use queues to manage incoming customer requests or calls in the order they were received, ensuring a fair and efficient response system.</span></p></div>