<div _ngcontent-serverapp-c232="" class="note-body"><div _ngcontent-serverapp-c232="" class="body-text"><h2><strong>Python Default Parameters</strong></h2><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Function parameters can have default values in Python. We can provide a default value to a parameter by using the assignment operator (=). Here is an example.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs"><span class="hljs-function"><span class="hljs-keyword">def</span> <span class="hljs-title">greet</span>(<span class="hljs-params">person, wish=<span class="hljs-string">"Happy Birthday"</span></span>):</span>
    <span class="hljs-string">"""This function prints the provided message in wish. If        
    wish is empty, it defaults to "Happy Birthday" """</span>
    print(<span class="hljs-string">"Hello"</span>, person + <span class="hljs-string">', '</span> + wish)
 &nbsp;&nbsp; 
greet(<span class="hljs-string">"Rita"</span>)
greet(<span class="hljs-string">"Hardik"</span>, <span class="hljs-string">"Happy New Year"</span>)</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>output:</strong></p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs">Hello Rita, Happy Birthday
Hello Hardik, Happy New Year </code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this function, the parameter&nbsp;<strong>​person​</strong>&nbsp;does not have a default value and must be passed(mandatory) during a call.</p><p>On the other hand, the parameter&nbsp;<strong>greet&nbsp;</strong>has a default value of ​&nbsp;<strong>"Happy Birthday"</strong>. So, it is optional during a call. If an argument is passed corresponding to the parameter, it will overwrite the default value, otherwise, it will use the default value.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Important Points to be kept in mind while using default parameters:</strong></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Any number of parameters in a function can have a default value.</li><li>The conventional syntax for using default parameters states that once we have passed a default parameter, all the parameters to its right must also have default values.</li><li>In other words, non-default parameters cannot follow default parameters.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>For example:</strong> if we had defined the function header as:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs"><span class="hljs-function"><span class="hljs-keyword">def</span>​ <span class="hljs-title">greet</span>(<span class="hljs-params">wish = ​<span class="hljs-string">"Happy Birthday"</span>​, name</span>):</span> 
 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<span class="hljs-comment">#statement</span></code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>We would get an error as:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs">SyntaxError: non-default argument follows default argument</code></pre><p>Thus to summarise, in a function header, any parameter can have a default value unless all the parameters to their right have their default values.</p></div></div>