<div _ngcontent-serverapp-c231="" class="note-body"><div _ngcontent-serverapp-c231="" class="body-text"><h3><strong>Local Scope:</strong></h3><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The variables which are defined inside a function body have a local scope. This implies that local variables can be accessed only inside the function in which they are declared.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h3><strong>Creating a Local Variable</strong></h3><p>&nbsp;</p><p>We declare a local variable inside a function. Consider the given function definition:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs"><span class="hljs-function"><span class="hljs-keyword">def</span> <span class="hljs-title">func</span>():</span>
    name = <span class="hljs-string">"Shivam Kumar Singh"</span>
	print(name)

func()</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>We get the output as:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-plaintext hljs">Shivam Kumar Singh</code></pre><h3>&nbsp;</h3><h3><strong>Accessing A Local Variable Outside The Scope</strong></h3><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs"><span class="hljs-function"><span class="hljs-keyword">def</span> <span class="hljs-title">func</span>():</span>
    name = <span class="hljs-string">"Shivam Kumar Singh"</span>

func()
print(name)</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In the above code, we declared a local variable y inside the function foo(), and then we tried to access it from outside the function. We get the output as:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs">NameError: name <span class="hljs-string">'name'</span> <span class="hljs-keyword">is</span> <span class="hljs-keyword">not</span> defined</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>We get an error because the lifetime of a <strong>local variable</strong> is the function it is defined in.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Outside the function, the variable does not exist and cannot be accessed. In other words, a variable cannot be accessed outside its scope.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h3><strong>The Lifetime of a Variable</strong></h3><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The time for which the variable exists in memory is called the lifetime of that variable:</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;● The lifetime of a Global variable is the entire program run (i.e., they live in the</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;memory as long as the program is being executed).</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;● The lifetime of a Local variable is their function’s run (i.e., as long as their function</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;is being executed).</p></div></div>