<div _ngcontent-serverapp-c232="" class="note-body"><div _ngcontent-serverapp-c232="" class="body-text"><h2><strong>Defining Functions In Python</strong></h2><p>&nbsp;</p><p>A function, once defined, can be invoked as many times as needed by using its name, without having to rewrite its code.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>A function in Python is defined as per the following syntax:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs"><span class="hljs-function"><span class="hljs-keyword">def</span>​ &lt;​<span class="hljs-title">function</span>​-​<span class="hljs-title">name</span>​&gt;(<span class="hljs-params">&lt;parameters&gt;</span>):</span>
 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<span class="hljs-string">""" Function's docstring """</span> 
 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;Expressions/Statements/Instructions&gt;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>● Function blocks begin with the keyword <strong>def</strong>​ followed by the <strong>function</strong> name and <strong>​parentheses</strong>​ ( ( ) ).</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>● The input<strong> parameters</strong>​ or ​<strong>arguments​</strong> should be placed within these parentheses. You can also define parameters inside these parentheses.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>● The first statement of a function is optional - the documentation string of the function or <strong>​docstring.​</strong> The <strong>docstring</strong>​ describes the functionality of a function.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>● The code block within every function starts with a <strong>colon </strong>​(:) and is <strong>indented</strong>.​ All statements within the same code block are at the same indentation level.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>● The ​return​ statement exits a function, optionally passing back an expression/value to the function caller.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Example:</strong></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Let us define a function to add two numbers.</strong></p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs"><span class="hljs-function"><span class="hljs-keyword">def</span> <span class="hljs-title">add</span>(<span class="hljs-params">a,b</span>):</span>
 &nbsp;&nbsp; 
 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<span class="hljs-keyword">return</span> a + b</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Output:</strong></p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs">The above function returns the sum of two numbers ​a​ <span class="hljs-keyword">and</span> ​b​.</code></pre><p>In the example given above, the sum a​ +b​ is returned.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Note</strong>:​ In Python, you need not specify the <strong>return</strong> type i.e. the <strong>data type</strong> of returned</p><p>value</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h2><strong>Calling/Invoking A Function</strong></h2><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Once you have defined a function, you can call it from another function, program, or even the Python prompt. To use a function that has been defined earlier, you need to write a <strong>function</strong> <strong>call​</strong>.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>A <strong>function</strong> <strong>call​</strong> takes the following form:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs">&lt;function-name&gt; (&lt;value-to-be-passed-​<span class="hljs-keyword">as</span>​-argument&gt;)</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The function definition does not execute the function body. The function gets executed only when it is called or invoked. To call the above function we can write:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs">add(​<span class="hljs-number">5</span>​,​<span class="hljs-number">7</span>​)</code></pre><p>In this function call, a​ = ​5​ and ​b = ​7​.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h2><strong>Arguments And Parameters</strong></h2><p>&nbsp;</p><p>As you know that you can pass values to functions. For this, you define variables to receive values in the <strong>function definition​</strong> and you send values via a function call statement. For example, in the <strong>​add()​ </strong>function, we have variables <strong>​a​</strong> and <strong>​b​</strong> to receive the values and while calling the function we pass the values 5 and 7. We can define these two types of values:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;●&nbsp; <strong>Arguments:</strong>​ The values being passed to the function from the function call statement are called arguments. Eg. ​5​ and ​7​ are arguments to the ​<strong>add()</strong> function.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>●&nbsp;<strong> Parameters: </strong>The values received by the function as inputs are called parameters. Eg. <strong>a​ </strong>and <strong>b​ </strong>are the parameters of the​ &nbsp;<strong>a​dd()​ </strong>function.</p></div></div>