<div _ngcontent-serverapp-c232="" class="note-body"><div _ngcontent-serverapp-c232="" class="body-text"><h2><strong>Constructor</strong></h2><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Constructors are generally used for instantiating an object.</li><li>The task of a constructor is to initialize(assign values) to the data member of the class when an object of the class is created.</li><li>In Python, the ​<strong>.__init__()​ </strong>method is called the​ <strong>constructor​</strong> and is always called when an object is created.</li><li>Note:​ Names that have lead and trailing double underscores are reserved for special use like the ​__init__​ method for object constructors. These methods are known as<strong> ​dunder methods</strong>.​</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><h2><strong>Syntax of Constructor Declaration</strong></h2><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs"><span class="hljs-function"><span class="hljs-keyword">def</span>​ ​<span class="hljs-title">__init__</span>​(<span class="hljs-params">self</span>):</span>
​&nbsp;   <span class="hljs-comment"># body of the constructor</span></code></pre><h2>&nbsp;</h2><h2><strong>Types of constructors</strong></h2><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li><strong>Default Constructor</strong>: ​The default constructor is a simple constructor that doesn’t accept any arguments. Its definition has only one argument which is a reference to the instance being constructed known as <strong>self​</strong>.</li><li><strong>Parameterized Constructor</strong>: A​ constructor with parameters is known as a parameterized constructor. The parameterized constructor takes its first argument as a reference to the instance being constructed known as <strong>self</strong> and the rest of the arguments are provided by the programmer.</li><li>The properties that all <strong>​Car​</strong> objects must have been defined in.​ <strong>__init__()​</strong>. Every time a new​ <strong>Car​</strong> object is created.​<strong> __init__()​</strong> sets the initial state of the object by assigning the values of the object’s properties. That is​<strong> __init__()​</strong> initializes each new instance of the class.</li><li>When a new class instance is created, the instance is automatically passed to the self parameter.​ <strong>__init__()​ </strong>so that new attributes can be defined on the object.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><h2><strong>The self​ Parameter</strong></h2><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;●&nbsp; The <strong>​self​</strong> parameter is a reference to the current instance of the class and is&nbsp;used to access variables that belong to the class.</p><p>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;●&nbsp; It does not have to be named <strong>self​</strong>, you can call it whatever you like, but it has to be the first parameter of any function in the class.</p><p>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;● You can give <strong>​.__init__()​</strong> any number of parameters, but the first parameter will always be a variable called self​.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Let’s update the Car class with the.​ <strong>__init__()</strong> ​method that creates n​ame​ and <strong>topSpeed</strong>​ attributes:</p><p><br>&nbsp;</p><pre><code class="language-python hljs"><span class="hljs-class"><span class="hljs-keyword">class</span>​ ​<span class="hljs-title">Car</span>​:</span>
​&nbsp;   <span class="hljs-function"><span class="hljs-keyword">def</span>​ ​<span class="hljs-title">__init__</span>​(<span class="hljs-params">self, name, topSpeed</span>):</span>
 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;self.name = name 
 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;self.topSpeed= topSpeed</code></pre><p><br>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Note: </strong>The ​<strong>.__init__()​</strong> method’s signature is indented in four spaces. The body of the method is indented by eight spaces. This indentation is vitally important. It tells Python that the <strong>​.__init__()​</strong> method belongs to the <strong>​Car​</strong> class.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In the body of <strong>​.__init__()​</strong>, two statements are using the self variable:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>1. <strong>self.name = name</strong>​ creates an attribute called <strong>name​</strong> and assigns to it the value of the <strong>name​</strong> parameter.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>2. <strong>self.topSpeed= topSpeed</strong> ​creates an attribute called t​opSpeed​ and assigns to it the value of the <strong>​topSpeed​ </strong>parameter.</p></div></div>