<div _ngcontent-serverapp-c318="" class="body-text p-24"><p><span style="font-size:17pt;"><strong>Binary Search on Answer</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:11pt;">One of the most fascinating topics which can be applied to solve many algorithmic problems is&nbsp;<strong>binary search on answer</strong>.&nbsp;</span></p><p><span style="font-size:11pt;">Before answering what binary search on an answer means, we should define one thing.&nbsp;</span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:13.999999999999998pt;"><strong>Monotonicity in functions -&nbsp;</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size:11pt;">Monotonicity in functions follow these rules -&nbsp;</span></p><ol><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">A function can only have two results for any input, and the two results are either&nbsp;<strong>true&nbsp;</strong>or<strong> false.</strong></span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Function should be either of the two forms -&nbsp;</span></li></ol><ul><li><p style="margin-left:36pt;"><span style="font-size:11pt;"><strong>TTTTTTFFFFFF</strong> - Firstly the function gives only&nbsp;<strong>true&nbsp;</strong>output for some values of input and then&nbsp;<strong>false&nbsp;</strong>output for every input after that.</span></p></li><li><p style="margin-left:36pt;"><span style="font-size:11pt;"><strong>FFFFFFTTTTTT</strong> - Firstly the function gives only&nbsp;<strong>false&nbsp;</strong>output for some values of input and then&nbsp;<strong>true&nbsp;</strong>output for every input after that.</span></p></li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:11pt;"><strong>Binary search on answer is usually used if we need to find maximum or minimum value of anything depending on the question.</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size:11pt;">Let us discuss how we can find either the minimum or maximum value.</span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ol><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">If we are given that the function is monotonic, and is of the form&nbsp;<strong>TTTTTTFFFFFF.&nbsp;</strong></span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">At any current input, if the output comes out to be&nbsp;<strong>True,&nbsp;</strong>then we don't need to check for left values of the input (because they will also be true as the function is monotonic in nature). Thus we move towards the right part of the input.&nbsp;</span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">Similarly, if the output comes out to be&nbsp;<strong>False,&nbsp;</strong>then we don't need to check for right values of the input (because they will also be false as the function is monotonic in nature). Thus we move towards the left part of the input.&nbsp;</span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">At each stage, we are dividing our search space in two&nbsp;<strong>halves</strong> and moving on one part. Thus&nbsp;<strong>binary search</strong> is applied.&nbsp;</span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">And the movement to the right or left part will be decided by the answer(output) given on any input value. Thus, called binary search on Answer.</span></li><li><span style="font-size:11pt;">In this way, we can find the&nbsp;<strong>maximum</strong> input for which&nbsp;<strong>true</strong> value occurs or&nbsp;<strong>minimum</strong> input for which&nbsp;<strong>false</strong> value occurs.</span></li></ol><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p></div>